# Optimal-Warranty-Policy
Modelling and analysis of a warranty policy using new and reconditioned parts

Environmental protection has always been a hot topic of discussion in contemporary society. As technology advances and more things are invented and used, the environmental impact is becoming more severe. Waste is one of the main factors affecting the health of the environment. Recycling products and reducing waste are encouraged in society. Not only it can protect the health of the environment, but also it can generate a high amount of revenue. In 2013, the annual profit from the electronic waste recycling industry was about 90 million dollars. Many companies choose to recycle their products nowadays. For example, Tesla has battery recycling. They design their batteries that are recoverable and recyclable. "Battery materials are refined and placed into a cell that still remain in the cell till the end of their lives and it can be recycled to recover its valuable materials to be reused over and over again." This policy is established to manage the products at the end of their lives. Also, companies use recycled products to do the reparation. In some products, broken components are replaced by refurbished components. Companies like Apple have already listed this practice in their repair terms and conditions agreement. From the customers' point of view, the quality of the product with "mixed components" should be satisfactory. As mentioned in the reference paper, the companies need to provide a significant price reduction and generous warranty coverage to showcase the quality of the product. From the company's point of view, it is more important to focus on making the most profit with a lower price and generous warranty. This problem is discussed in the reference paper. It mainly focuses on determining the optimal warranty policy when a component is randomly chosen from the mixture of new and reconditioned components for replacing a product that failed under the warranty period. In contrast, failed products are generally replaced by new ones or repaired using new components. Authors have built a mathematical model to maximize the manufacturer's expected profit. There are four variables considered in the paper: the warranty length, the sale price, the age of reconditioned components and the mixture ratio of reconditioned components to be used. The scope of this project is based on the reference paper to understand the mathematical formulas to build the model in Maple. We have also plotted the results for an optimal solution in 3D and contour plots. A detailed analysis of the experiments and numerical results are inferred in this project. Furthermore, we carried out some experiments to make various other inferences from the model. And, those results are then plotted on graphs in Excel.
